So hi, and welcome to the lecture
on multiple variables.
In this lecture, we're going to talk about
the process of model fitting when you have
lots of variables in a regression context.
I'd like to distinguish between
multivariable regression and
the kind of things that you'll learn in In
your prediction class as part of the data
science specialization.
In prediction, we're less
concerned with interpretability so
we're far more intolerant for
complex models,
lots of interactions, and
automated search algorithms and
rules to come up with the best prediction
with respect to a specific loss function.
In contrast,
in a lot of regression examples,
we want simple interpretable models.
That means we're going to place a heavy
emphasis on the idea of parsimony.
Finding the simplest model to
explain what we're looking at, so
as simple as possible, but no simpler.
That's the idea of parsimony, it has
kind of the flavor of Occam's razor,
which states that all else being equal,
the simplest solution is
probably the right one.
Well here, all else being equal,
we're going to prefer a simple
model rather than a complex one.
And that has broad consequences.
So if a variable in
a regression model explains
a tiny bit extra about a variation but
really harms the interpretability,
we're going to omit that variable,
even if it really does explain a little
bit of positive amount of variability.
So I also like to bring up
this quote by Scott Zeger
who really helps me think about what
I'm going for when I look at models.
So he likes to think of a model as a lens
to which you're looking at the data.
So in that context,
your model is neither right nor wrong.
Any model that teaches you something
valuable about your data is right,
as long as it teaches you something true.
And the idea of a lense is
just in the same vein that
in some cases when you're looking
at the world through a lense
to find a super fine detail,
you might need a microscope.
To find out super high level detail,
you might need a telescope.
And so the idea of a model
being something like that
where you're looking at the same thing,
but
the right model might highlight the right
feature that teaches you something true.
So I think that's a very useful
way to think about models.
For a specific instance where we're
interested in a treatment of factors,
something like that, where there
really is either a treatment of factor
not averaged across the population
that we're interested in.
There are uncountably many ways that our
model can be wrong and lead us astray.
Lead us to conclude that there's a
treatment of fact when there's not one or
lead us to conclude that there's not
a treatment of fact when there is one.
And in this particular lecture,
we're going to go through some basics
of what happens when we either
include unnecessary regressors or
exclude the important regressors.
I'd like to bring up this
quote by Donald Rumsfeld.
He was the sort of embattled
Secretary of Defense for
the US and he was widely derided for
this specific quote, however it is very
pertinent to the idea of regression.
And it goes something like this.
There are known knowns.
These are things we know that we know.
Then there are known unknowns.
That is to say, there are things
that we know we don't know.
But there are also unknown unknowns.
There are things we don't
know we don't know.
And so this quote was,
again, heavily criticized.
But for
regression it makes a lot of sense.
Known knowns are regressors that we
know we should include in our model and
we have recorded so we just put them in.
There are known unknowns, and these are
the things that we know we should include
in our regression model, but
unfortunately we didn't collect them.
And there are unknown unknowns and
these are things that we
should include in our regression model for
example, but we didn't collect them or
don't have or don't know whether or
not they're important.
So I think this is a funny little quote,
but it gives us an idea of the various
lines of thinking that you have to go
through when building a regression model.
So let's talk about some general rules for
our known knowns,
unknown unknowns, and known unknowns.
So what happens if we omit a variable
that we should have included?
And the general result
is that results in bias.
In other words, you get, if you're
interested in a treatment effect or
an effective interest for a particular
regressor, and you've omitted something
that's correlated with that regressor,
then you're potentially going to get bias.
You're not going to get an accurate
estimate of what you want to estimate
because of this other variable.
Now, one way to prevent that is to try and
randomize.
Because if this other variable
that you're omitting is
uncorrelated with the variable
that you're interested in,
then it doesn't matter usually
whether you include it or not.
So randomization is a strategy to try and
prevent that from happening.
That's why AB testing is so powerful in
clinical trials that are so powerful.
But then I would remind you,
if there's too many confounded things,
then even randomization
is not going to help you.
So that means that omitting
variables that are important,
obviously has a negative impact
on our regression model fit.
What about including variables
that are unimportant?
Is that a bad thing?
Well, we eliminate bias,
there's no consequence to bias if
we include unnecessary variables.
So if you just generate a bunch
of standard normals and
throw them into your regression model,
they have nothing to do with anything,
they are not going to introduce bias.
However, they are going to
inflate standard error.
So introducing unnecessary
variables into your regression
model inflates the standard errors.
And we can actually
measure how much it would
increase the actual standards errors,
not just the estimated standard errors.
So the other thing is some
of these model terms,
like, R squared, they're not necessarily
good ways to adjudicate between
looking at different models
with different regressors in.
And the reason with R squared is as
you put in a bunch of new regressors,
it's guaranteed to go up no matter what.
In the sum of the squared errors, the mean
squared error is guaranteed to go down in
regression as you include more regressors.
So here is an example where I
just simulated a bunch of data.
And I redid the simulation for
every number of regressors and
just included them into a model, and
it just shows the R squared just going up
even though all I'm doing is generating
a bunch of random normal vectors and
putting them into a regression model.